# CryptoClustering


Began by importing all dependecies and loading CSV into a Pandas Dataframe. Completed basic EDA using 'describe' and 'info' functions along with a HVPlot line graph to gain general understanding of dataset from a visual and statistical perspective.

To begin I normalized my data using the Standard Scaler and saved that information to an updated dataframe. I later created a second dataframe using PCA to reduce the dimension which I will get into later. However, the following steps were done for both datasets so I could compare the results from both. I began by creating an Elbow Graph to determine the best K-value, to do this I created a list with K-values from 2-12, empty lists to store my inertia values and then a for loop to calculate the inertia for each k-value in my set range, I saved this to a new dataset and graphed it. For both my original and PCA dataset, the best K-value was 4. I then initialized the K-Means model, set n_clusters = 4 since the best k-value was determined to be 4, fit the model and printed my prediction array for the cluster values using 'model.predict()'. I created a copy of my dataframe and added a new column titled 'clusters' which saved my prediction array into my dataframe. With this complete I could now create a scatter plot using hvPLot. For my original dataset I set my X and Y axises to the price change percentages for 24hours on the x-axis and 7 days on the Y-axis. For my PCA dataset I set my first two principle components 'PCA1' and 'PCA2' on the X and Y axis. Additionally I added a hover to my graphs that gave detailed information such as the 'coin_id', cluster predictions and then color coded my points by their cluster predicitons. 


To clarify the PCA process, I began by initializing a PCA model with 3 components and then used the 'fit_transform' on my original scaled dataset to reduce my dataset to three principal components. I retrived the variability for each pricipal component, and calculated the total explained variance which was approx 0.298, indicating a low variance. This data was saved as my second dataset that I mentioned prior. As additional prep/cleaning, during the dataframe creation process, I copied the crypto names, aka 'coin_id', from my original dataset and then set them as the index like I had in my original dataset. At this point, I followed all the steps I detailed above. 

The final thing I did was plot the elbow curves and cluster plots for both my scaled and PCA datasets next to each other for easier visual comparison. The impact of dimension reduction is very clear - the PCA elbow graph has a more clearly defined elbow and does not have the continued variance in inertia values that our original scaled dataset has which made it difficult to determine the best k-value. For our scatter plots, the PCA dataset has less dispersion than the original scaled dataset, though both still show the overlap between the purple and green clusters. 
